AI-model
As mentioned above, our AI model was based on two convolutional networks. The Organ CNN from [21], segments a number of different organs and inputs an organ
mask marking the lungs, vertebral bones, liver, aorta and the heart to the Detection CNN. Apart from this, the Detection CNN also takes the PET and CT images
as input (Fig. 1). To simplify the structure, the PET image was resampled to the CT resolution. Combining this information, the Detection CNN tries to classify
each image voxel as either background or lung lesion. The Detection CNN has the network architecture from [21] except that it takes a multi-channel input consisting of the PET image, the CT image and the organ mask previously described.
Training the Detection CNN The Detection CNN was trained using the training set (66 images, with 74 lesions in total) for direct parameter estimation and the validation
set (23 images, with 35 lesions in total) to choose learning rate. Since exact delineation of lesions is virtually impossible, mimicking the exact boundaries of the annotations is
not relevant.  Thus, any voxels within 10 mm from the annotated lesions are marked as “don’t-care”. This means that when computing the loss function, there is no loss for
these voxels regardless of the output label. For the remaining voxels, the standard negative log-likelihood loss was used. Naturally, this leads to a slight over-segmentation of
the lesions, but as detection is the main goal here, this was considered acceptable.The optimization was performed using the Adam method with Nesterov momentum.
The learning rate was initialized at 0.0001 and reduced when the validation loss reached a plateau. Each epoch consisted of 500 batches each containing 75 patches; the
patch size is smallest possible for the network, 136 × 136 × 72 pixels. After 50 epochs,the model was evaluated on the training group. 
Patches whose center points were clas-sified as false positives were sampled more frequently (10% of the samples) when the training was restarted. 
This cycle was repeated ten times.
